Distribution-Level Flexibility Market for Congestion Management
By:Esmat, A (Esmat, Ayman)[ 1 ] ; Usaola, J (Usaola, Julio)[ 1 ] ; Moreno, MA (Angeles Moreno, Maria)[ 1 ]
View ResearcherID and ORCID
ENERGIES
Volume: 11 Issue: 5
Article Number: 1056
DOI: 10.3390/en11051056
Published: MAY 2018
Document Type:Article
Abstract
Nowadays, problems facing Distribution System Operators (DSOs) due to demand increase and the wide penetration of renewable energy are usually solved by means of grid reinforcement. However, the smart grid paradigm enables the deployment of demand flexibility for congestion management in distribution grids. This could substitute, or at least postpone, these needed investments. A key role in this scheme is the aggregator, who can act as a "flexibility provider" collecting the available flexibility from the consumers. Under this paradigm, this paper proposes a flexibility market led by the DSO and aimed at solving distribution grid congestions. The proposal also includes a flexibility market clearing algorithm, which is easy to implement, has low computational requirements and considers the energy rebound effect. The proposed design has the advantage of excluding the DSO's need for trading in energy markets. Also, the solution algorithm proposed is fully compatible with already existing grid analysis tools. The proposed electricity market is tested with two case studies from a real Spanish distribution network, where the proposed clearing algorithm is used, and finally, results are presented and discussed.
Keywords
Author Keywords:aggregators; demand side flexibility; down-regulation flexibility; flexibility market; up-regulation flexibility
KeyWords Plus:DEMAND-SIDE MANAGEMENT; ENERGY; MODELS; TOOLS
Author Information
Reprint Address: Esmat, A (reprint author)
Univ Carlos III Madrid, Dept Elect Engn, Ave Univ 30, Madrid 28911, Spain.

Addresses:
[ 1 ] Univ Carlos III Madrid, Dept Elect Engn, Ave Univ 30, Madrid 28911, Spain

E-mail Addresses:aesmat@ing.uc3m.es; jusaola@ing.uc3m.es; amoreno@ing.uc3m.es
Publisher
MDPI, ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND
Categories / Classification
Research Areas:Energy & Fuels
Web of Science Categories:Energy & Fuels
See more data fields