MetaLIMS, a simple open-source laboratory information management system for small metagenomic labs
By:Heinle, CE (Heinle, Cassie Elizabeth)[ 1 ] ; Gaultier, NPE (Gaultier, Nicolas Paul Eugene)[ 1 ] ; Miller, D (Miller, Dana)[ 1 ] ; Purbojati, RW (Purbojati, Rikky Wenang)[ 1 ] ; Lauro, FM (Lauro, Federico M.)[ 1 ]
View ResearcherID and ORCID
GIGASCIENCE
Volume: 6 Issue: 6
DOI: 10.1093/gigascience/gix025
Published: APR 18 2017
Document Type:Article
Abstract
Background: As the cost of sequencing continues to fall, smaller groups increasingly initiate and manage larger sequencing projects and take on the complexity of data storage for high volumes of samples. This has created a need for low-cost laboratory information management systems (LIMS) that contain flexible fields to accommodate the unique nature of individual labs. Many labs do not have a dedicated information technology position, so LIMS must also be easy to setup and maintain with minimal technical proficiency. Findings: MetaLIMS is a free and open-source web-based application available via GitHub. The focus of MetaLIMS is to store sample metadata prior to sequencing and analysis pipelines. Initially designed for environmental metagenomics labs, in addition to storing generic sample collection information and DNA/RNA processing information, the user can also add fields specific to the user's lab. MetaLIMS can also produce a basic sequencing submission form compatible with the proprietary Clarity LIMS system used by some sequencing facilities. To help ease the technical burden associated with web deployment, MetaLIMS options the use of commercial web hosting combined with MetaLIMS bash scripts for ease of setup. Conclusions: MetaLIMS overcomes key challenges common in LIMS by giving labs access to a low-cost and open-source tool that also has the flexibility to meet individual lab needs and an option for easy deployment. By making the web application open source and hosting it on GitHub, we hope to encourage the community to build upon MetaLIMS, making it more robust and tailored to the needs of more researchers.
Keywords
Author Keywords:LIMS; customizable; GitHub; open-source; web application; sample management; JavaScript; php; mysql; HTML
Author Information
Reprint Address: Heinle, CE (reprint author)
Nanyang Technol Univ, SCELSE, 60 Nanyang Dr, Singapore 637551, Singapore.


Addresses:
[ 1 ] Nanyang Technol Univ, SCELSE, 60 Nanyang Dr, Singapore 637551, Singapore


E-mail Addresses:cheinle@ntu.edu.sg
Funding
Funding Agency Grant Number
Singapore Ministry of Education Academic Research FundMinistry of Education, Singapore 
MOE2013-T3-1-013 
National Research Foundation SingaporeSingapore National Research Foundation   
Ministry of Education, Nanyang Technological University   
National University of Singapore under Research Centre of Excellence Program   
View funding text   
Publisher
OXFORD UNIV PRESS, GREAT CLARENDON ST, OXFORD OX2 6DP, ENGLAND
Categories / Classification
Research Areas:Life Sciences & Biomedicine - Other Topics; Science & Technology - Other Topics
Web of Science Categories:Biology; Multidisciplinary Sciences
See more data fields