Semantic Web-Based Management of Routing Configurations
By:Clemente, FJG (Garcia Clemente, Felix J.)[ 2 ] ; Calero, JMA (Alcaraz Calero, Jose M.)[ 1 ] ; Bernabe, JB (Bernal Bernabe, Jorge)[ 1 ] ; Perez, JMM (Marin Perez, Juan Manuel)[ 1 ] ; Perez, GM (Martinez Perez, Gregorio)[ 1 ] ; Skarmeta, AFG (Gomez Skarmeta, Antonio F.)[ 1 ]
View ResearcherID and ORCID
JOURNAL OF NETWORK AND SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT
Volume: 19 Issue: 2 Pages: 209-229
DOI: 10.1007/s10922-010-9169-6
Published: JUN 2011
Document Type:Article
Abstract
Today, network operators typically reason about network behaviour by observing the effects of a particular configuration in operation. This configuration process typically involves logging configuration changes and rolling back to a previous version when a problem arises. Advanced network operators (more each day) use policy-based routing languages to define the routing configuration and tools based on systematic verification techniques to ensure that operational behaviour is consistent with the intended behaviour. These tools help operators to reason about properties of routing protocols. However, these languages and tools work in low-level, i.e. they focus on properties, parameters, and elements of routing protocols. However, network operators receive high-level policies that must be refined to low level parameters before they can be applied. These high-level policies should consider other properties (e.g. extensibility or reasoning capabilities), parameters (e.g. time period, localization or QoS parameters), and elements (e.g. AAA individuals or resources), when the network configuration is defined. We believe that there is a need of broader approaches in languages and tools for defining routing configurations that are more powerful and integrated to other network elements. This article provides the main ideas behind the specification of routing policies using formal languages which enable the description of semantics. These semantics make easier the policy refinement process and allows describing an automated process for doing conflict detection on these policies.
Keywords
Author Keywords:Routing policy; Network management; BGP; Policy languages; Conflict detection; Semantic web
KeyWords Plus:COMMON INFORMATION MODEL; ONTOLOGY
Author Information
Reprint Address: Perez, GM (reprint author)
Univ Murcia, Dept Ingn Informac & Comunicac, E-30071 Murcia, Spain.

Addresses:
[ 1 ] Univ Murcia, Dept Ingn Informac & Comunicac, E-30071 Murcia, Spain

[ 2 ] Univ Murcia, Dept Ingn & Tecnol Computadores, E-30071 Murcia, Spain

E-mail Addresses:fgarcia@um.es; jmalcaraz@um.es; jorgebernal@um.es; juanmanuel@um.es; gregorio@um.es; skarmeta@um.es
Funding
Funding Agency Grant Number
Spanish MECMinistry of Education and Science, Spain   
MICINNMinistry of Science and Innovation, Spain (MICINN)   
European CommissionEuropean Commission Joint Research Centre 
AP2006-4150 
CSD2006-00046 
TIN2008-06441-C02-02 
TIN2009-14475-C04 
Fundacion SenecaFundacion Seneca 
04552/GERM/06 
View funding text   
Publisher
SPRINGER, 233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA
Categories / Classification
Research Areas:Computer Science; Telecommunications
Web of Science Categories:Computer Science, Information Systems; Telecommunications
See more data fields