The impact of Knowledge Management on Organizational Productivity: A Case Study on Koosar Bank of Iran
By:Torabi, F (Torabi, Fatemeh)[ 1 ] ; El-Den, J (El-Den, Jamal)[ 2 ]
View ResearcherID and ORCID
4TH INFORMATION SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE (ISICO 2017)
Edited by:Lwin, KT
Book Series: Procedia Computer Science
Volume: 124 Pages: 300-310
DOI: 10.1016/j.procs.2017.12.159
Published: 2017
Document Type:Proceedings Paper
Conference
Conference: 4th Information Systems International Conference (ISICO) - Innovation of Information Systems - Visions, Opportunities and Challenges
Location: Bali, INDONESIA
Date: NOV 06-08, 2017
Sponsor(s):Inst Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember, Dept Informat Syst
Abstract
Knowledge is becoming a valuable asset for most organizations and the quest to manage this asset is gaining popularity among researchers and management. Organizational management's main objective is to ensure effective and efficient use of its diverse resources such as labor, capital, materials, energy and information in their quest to achieve competitiveness as well as to increase productivity that must be managed. In today's rapid technological change, companies are in constant struggle to maintain competitive advantage through market differentiation by providing superior products and services. The management in organizations is increasing their focus on employees' know-how, past experiences and expertise in their quest to excel in achieving their goal. In short, Knowledge has become an integral asset for most organizational functionalities. Knowledge management promises to create the proper structure and the necessary technological infrastructure in organizations and human driven placement. This research investigates the role of "tacit" knowledge sharing on organizational productivity. Accordingly, a framework was developed and hypotheses were drawn and tested where results demonstrated interesting insights into the role of sharing on organizational productivity. The survey, which was conducted at Koosa Bank of Iran, demonstrated that the employees' intension to share and consequently the sharing of tacit knowledge has direct positive impacts on productivity. In addition, our analysis demonstrated that not only productivity would increase as a result of knowledge sharing, but also employees' innovative contributions increased as a result of exposure to others' knowledge, expertise, and experiences. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Keywords
Author Keywords:Knowledge Management; Productivity; Knowledge Culture; Tacit and Explicit Knowledge
KeyWords Plus:CULTURE; PERFORMANCE; INFORMATION; TECHNOLOGY; INNOVATION
Author Information
Reprint Address: El-Den, J (reprint author)
Charles Darwin Univ, Ellengowan Dr, Casuarina, NT 0810, Australia.

Addresses:
[ 1 ] Putra Malaysia Univ, Jalan Upm, Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia

[ 2 ] Charles Darwin Univ, Ellengowan Dr, Casuarina, NT 0810, Australia

E-mail Addresses:jamal.el-den@cdu.edu.au
Publisher
ELSEVIER SCIENCE BV, SARA BURGERHARTSTRAAT 25, PO BOX 211, 1000 AE AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS
Categories / Classification
Research Areas:Business & Economics; Communication; Information Science & Library Science
Web of Science Categories:Business; Communication; Information Science & Library Science
See more data fields